README.md, before:

# Research Project in Machine Learning and Data Science (07/2019)

## Introduction

A research project, continuous to [project](https://github.com/letsirk/EIV) in Explorative Information Visualization course, explores different Machine Learning and Natural Language Processing techniques to group ingredients based on the names in the receipts. The project was accomplished during 2019 for Research Project in Machine Learning and Data Science course.  

## Techniques and Tools

The research project utilizes following techniques and tools: 
* Python and Jupyter Notebook 
  * [scikit-learn](https://scikit-learn.org/stable/) library to access Machine Learning models
  * other general libaries to show (pandas, seaborn, matplotlib) or manipulate (numpy) data
  * [Gensim Word2Vec](https://radimrehurek.com/gensim/models/word2vec.html) library to access a NLP model from Gensim
  * [wvlib](https://github.com/fginter/wvlib_light/tree/3471a8db66883769c4e5398806876d5be3e3df24) library to access a pretrained NLP model from [Turku NLP](https://turkunlp.org/finnish_nlp.html)

All the following models were trained, validated and tested:
* Machine Learning models
  * Decision Tree
  * Random Forest
  * K-means++
* Natural Language Processing models
  * Turku NLP pretrained model
  * Gensim Word2Vec

The results are summarized in the last cell of [the notebook](https://letsirk.github.io/eiv-research-project/). Unfortunately, the written report has been lost during the years.

Commit message:

Included a report file in the information

README.md, after:

# Research Project in Machine Learning and Data Science (07/2019)

## Introduction

A research project, continuous to [project](https://github.com/letsirk/EIV) in Explorative Information Visualization course, explores different Machine Learning and Natural Language Processing techniques to group ingredients based on the names in the receipts. The project was accomplished during 2019 for *Research Project in Machine Learning and Data Science* course. The detailed information about the project and its results can be found [here](https://github.com/letsirk/eiv-research-project/blob/master/research-project-in-machine-learning-report.pdf). Furthermore, the results are summarized in the last cell of [this notebook](https://letsirk.github.io/eiv-research-project/).

## Techniques and Tools

The research project utilizes following techniques and tools: 
* Python and Jupyter Notebook 
  * [scikit-learn](https://scikit-learn.org/stable/) library to access Machine Learning models
  * other general libaries to show (pandas, seaborn, matplotlib) or manipulate (numpy) data
  * [Gensim Word2Vec](https://radimrehurek.com/gensim/models/word2vec.html) library to access a NLP model from Gensim
  * [wvlib](https://github.com/fginter/wvlib_light/tree/3471a8db66883769c4e5398806876d5be3e3df24) library to access a pretrained NLP model from [Turku NLP](https://turkunlp.org/finnish_nlp.html)

All the following models were trained, validated and tested:
* Machine Learning models
  * Decision Tree
  * Random Forest
  * K-means++
* Natural Language Processing models
  * Turku NLP pretrained model
  * Gensim Word2Vec
